# Arch Linux installation note

The [Installation guide](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Installation_guide) is useful.

This installation note will do install minimal things can let a VirtualBox virtual machine runs.

You will need an Oracle VirtualBox, some disk spaces, and, of course, an Arch Linux ISO.

## Before install

In Oracle VirtualBox, the default booting mode for a virtual machine is, BIOS unless EFI mode enabled(which will not be introduced in this article).

Add the Arch Linux ISO file to the virtual machine we just created. After seeing a command line, type following commands:

```bash
ping archlinux.org # To confirm that the virtual machine can link to the Internet.
timedatectl set-ntp true # To enable NTP which set the clock automatically.
```

### Set partitions

As the virtual machine uses BIOS, we need to have a [MBR table](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Partitioning#Master_Boot_Record). Type `fdisk -l` to check the disk partitions, then use `cfdisk` to make a partition. In cfdisk, choose dos if we want to make an MBR table.

The most important things for cfdisk are:

1. Have a swap partition with `Linux swap/Solaris` type.
2. Have a bootable main partition with `Linux` type.
3. Write this partition table to the disk.

Type `fdisk -l` to check the disk partitions again. You should watch at least two partitions: One is swap and the other one is the main data.

When everything's fine, format the disk now:

```bash
mkfs.ext4 /dev/root_partition
mkswap /dev/swap_partition
```

## Install

### Mount

To let the ISO know where should software installed, we need to mount.

```bash
swapon /dev/swap_partition
mount /dev/root_partition /mnt
```

The disk is now ready to install.

### Install packages

Install packages to our mounting point:

```bash
pacstrap /mnt base linux linux-firmware vim man-db man-pages dhcpcd
```

### Configure

Now we need to set some configs.

```bash
genfstab -U /mnt >> /mnt/etc/fstab # Decide mounting stuffs I guess
arch-chroot /mnt # Change root into the new system by the manual
ln -sf /usr/share/zoneinfo/Asia/Taipei /etc/localtime # Set timezone to Asia/Taipei
hwclock --systohc # Set the clock
passwd # Add a password to the user root
```

### Make a boot loader: GRUB

A boot loader will inform the OS how to turn our computer on.

Before approaching, you know we are still using MBR, right?

```bash
pacman -S grub
fdisk -l
grub-install --target=i386-pc /dev/sda
grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg
```

### Reboot

Finally! we can shutdown or reboot, then check our Arch Linux.

If the Arch Linux working successfully, good; Otherwise, we will need to access by ISO to troubleshoot.

## What if the installation failed

Assume that we still have the ISO disk file.

1. Boot from CD
2. `mount /dev/root_partition /mnt`. If fails, the problem is from the partition setting.
3. `arch-chroot /mnt`.
4. Check if there's something missed. Mostly I fail on the boot loader.
